Oh
this has to be one of those gorgeous
spots in the world the Cape of Good Hope
even also Francis Drake the great
Explorer called it the fairest capable
and Who am I to argue with good old
Frank a just look at that it's difficult
not to be captivated by the beautiful
vibrant exciting country of South Africa
it's fantastic climate and lush
landscape means everyone lives life in
the great outdoors and BBQ or briars
it's called here is a national pastime
that crosses all cultures modern South
Africans call themselves the rainbow
nation and describe their food as
rainbow cuisine because of its rich
colorful influences looking forward to
my rainbow barbecue trail I stopped off
first in manga and bustling Township
outskirts of cake
in the townships bryce stands are
absolutely everywhere they're about as
common as a local chip shop or your hot
dog storm oh you Molly you can't be a
quick take away barbi it's mainly
sausage and steaks on offer here
deliciously filling and very cheap
thank you but do you fancy getting
together with a few friends the only
place to be if the local butchers why
you might ask well here you buy an dry
attached to every butchers is a tabby
where the Barbie burns all day long you
just literally by a meat and bribes it's
as simple as that that is a traditional
African Brewers i'm going to show you
how to make a traditional african
vegetable that accompanies it
and here it is butternut squash you've
probably seen these at your local
supermarkets got quite a tough skin so
you really have to get a sharp knife and
cut all the way through it just to speed
things up a little bit i've got some cut
here for you you just take out the seed
so go all the way along there really get
that spoon and let it cut in there
that's it and they'll just fall out like
that lovely vibrant color because it's
got a bit of a sort of subtle sweet
taste to it you need something to jazzed
up a bit and here is the perfect paste
take about four cloves of garlic there
and just chop that up quite roughly to
start with here we are how many do this
inside of your sort of food processor
one of those little blenders this is
quite traditional isn't it and then you
want to add about a teaspoon of salt the
idea is that the salt draws out all that
lovely juices out of the garlic that's
it chop it up as it gets cut down into
small little pieces you can then use the
end of the night and start to paste it
get into a little bit of a rhythm there
get those shoulders work in spreading
and pulling up delightful and when it
gets quite loose and creamy you pick
that up and slide that into the bowl to
that you can add some lemon juice oh
dear and half a lemon really a couple of
heaped teaspoons of the cumin powder and
really nice oh yes lovely and a pinch
costly ground black pepper and then a
couple of tablespoons of olive oil oh
yes and then get your spoon and give
that a good old it's really mix it up
get all those flavors working together
beautiful so lutely love it and then
simply rub that all over your butternut
squash there you can see that's gonna be
bleeding into it as it goes on to your
barbie if you want to get that flavor to
penetrate a little bit more but all
you've got to do is get your knife and
just score the outside of it just like
that it's all very rough isn't it when I
star this very African very easy and
very tasty let's do this ok now the
squash will need about two to three
minutes on each letter cider the meat
and potholes then flip over and cook
skin side down for another six to eight
minutes
base now limiting the flesh is nice and
tender when you pierce it
let it out
you like it in Cape Town popping down to
your local park takes on a whole new
meaning at the cape of good hope nature
reserve you can of course indulge in
your average outdoor pursuits but if you
fancy having a Barbie you don't have to
take yours with you stone-built bry site
are dotted all over the place and i met
up with a great cook porsche barbecuing
society's keep speciality their kebabs
of meat and vegetables new spicy
marinades include cumin coriander red
wine and apricot jam horse is using
ostrich a really tender meat that's like
best quality beef but not lower in fat
you can get it in supermarkets have you
sit give it a go but if you don't fancy
you can always use your old favorites
like chicken one the combination between
spicy and sweet is a typical feature of
cake cooking it originates from the
Malays who are brought here by the Dutch
Jarvan Indonesia as slave cooks in the
18th century
what I've infants they have on the
cuisine well they brought all the spices
they're using their curries like the
cumin and the apricot jam also used to
use raisins in their curries let's
sweetness that translates into what we
are doing now putting the human into a
marinade and the apricot jam very
popular in the Cape this time very very
popular popular I think these are about
ready shall we serve up a minute well
we're gonna serve them with some apricot
jam oh yeah okay I'll just give you a
little bit peach chutney which is my
husband's favorite if you make you
that's why you're such a good cook of
course approach breed and it's got corn
in it oh look at that keep it together
to come here often with the family to
have a bit of a bride well we do in
summit it's nice to come out in the Sun
yeah hey from the city should we call
but why are you not come on this bride
time
now there's only one problem with having
a bar be on the nature serve be prepared
for a quick getaway as the gatecrashers
can be a bit vicious our demolished all
the societies and the entire ingredients
for the next recipe
ha South Africa is one of the world's
major producers of exotic vegetables and
fruits from the cape orchards you get
vast quantities of peaches nectarines
apricots plums grapes apples and pears
which you can often buy cheaply from
roadside farm stalls fruit farming in
the Cape goes back to the 17th century
as I discovered from farmer's wife
vilner rrb at home and her farm in par
so how did it all start here well
Endsley the Dutch sent ships to the east
for spices and they lost many sailors
because of scurvy and that was because
they didn't have fresh fruit vegetables
and fresh water so the Dutch decided to
start a colony here same farmers here so
that i can start farming with fruits and
vegetables and that I don't started ah
Rodney's I'm so hot yes but I have got a
wonderful refreshment for you oh that's
good
and what better the builders fruit punch
a delicious mix of freshly picked pears
grapes and peaches put into a ball laced
with a little homemade sugar syrup
topped with peach juice and sparkling
white wine ice cube sprigs of fresh mint
ah just a tiny
tinting
oh so what do you think that if
delicious really refreshing now I'm
gonna do you something that's gonna make
you go hmm and you'll go hmm too if you
like a nice bit of lamb on the barbie
I'm gonna butterfly my leg of lamb and
stud it with some garlic and rosemary
he's beginning to reveal itself
butterflying is just cutting around
removing the bone to the whole piece of
meat can be opened out flat it's not
difficult absolutely gorgeous but even
easier when your butcher does it for you
now this kuru lamb comes from this
region and it's got a wonderful
fragrance to it because all the lambs
graze on beautiful herbs that are in the
field now I'm also going to studded with
these what I've got here is some little
slivers of garlic cloves cut in half and
I've spite them with pieces of Rosalie
let's do you just take the rows move out
that the sprig and just push that
through ever so gently like that and
then we just take then take our knife
make a small incision there just open up
that pocket and slip that garlic and
Rose one inside and just keep repeating
that all over your lamb another little
slip they get your finger open up that
pocket there and this will flavor the
entire lamb and we're just moving along
here quite beautifully be really
generous here don't think that you need
you to put one or two little spikes they
really just fit up your lamb because the
flavor you carve into it the end is up
to die for that's beautiful I think that
looks a real treat now you can see
plenty of garlic to really give it lots
of lovely flavor I'm just gonna drizzle
now a little bit of sherry
he SED season it up ever touch more
beautiful now I'm just gonna roll that
over now they didn't roll that meat over
there and repeat the process on the
other side lots of garlic and lots of
herbs but perhaps not as busy because
you'd probably see other little sticks
of garlic or rosemary coming through
from the other side this is looking so
good that's it often mind a lot of my
friends come round and they particularly
always ask for this Wayne's are you
doing that lovely lamb special also did
you simply die here and once again once
you finish that a little bit more salt
and pepper in there that's it
and a touch more sherry there we go
there is a little bit more sherry but
extravagantly there yell sherry and say
just rub that in there and last but not
least what I've got here is some oil
which I warmed slightly and infused it
with some lemon lime and orange skin a
few peppercorns into your bottle and ooh
I say there's a bit special you know
just shaking a little bit of back on
each other like that is beautiful lovely
and again and now a little bit of a rub
their rubbing that in oil ah so
attractive and believe me it tastes
magnificent let's whack it on the barbie
and when you lift it up you might find
the odd bit of garlic or something like
that dropping it don't worry about that
just bring that over and pop there nice
medium to hot coals I just ease that on
there like that if that a little bit of
a press down there oh it's smoky gets
the old eyes going now we're talking
about 35 to 40 minutes here depending on
how big your leg of lamb is then the
beauty of this is right at the end you
have three different varieties of mids
because of the fitness you have a bit of
rear you have a bit of medium you have a
bit of well done everybody is satisfied
I've taken the branch from the rosemary
to step the rosemary leaves off and I
pushed it through peeled onions that are
sliced across the root literally bit
those in little bit of oil and then put
them on my barbie and sprinkle them with
icing sugar to caramelize them
iveco well with the lab
turn it over after about 20 minutes and
then when it's cooked remove it from the
barbie and let it stand for about 10
minutes before you start to come
while my lambs resting here's a quick
but fairy glitter starter using
villainous peers they're sliced and
grilled along with rustic bread for just
a few minutes on each side the bread
brush with a little extra virgin olive
oil and topped with slices of parma ham
the grilled pear and some crumbled up
gorgonzola cheese Oh a feast for a
farmer's wife you might say oh yes
George but what would Vilna think I
serve the lamb with fire roasted red
pepper and nectarine salad wonderful I
told you we turned off the beaten track
is definitely the best way to discover
what a country's got to offer and doing
just that I found a hidden treasure on
the Cape 16 mile beach iza Fontaine a
beach kitchen built by sake and cara de
villiers with its own outdoor kitchen
complete with Barbie smoker and wood
fired up
the morning spent preparing the seven
course seafood banquet which people
travel miles for first up is homemade
bread and crayfish soup served rather
stranger you might think with a typical
Cape accompaniment of fruit jams and
preserves this is no light lunch let me
tell you you have to allow a whole
afternoon as course after course of
fishy delights and a dazzling selection
of salads keeps coming at you you
definitely won't get me swimming down
after that a lot no matter how tempted
most beautiful waters a lot of what you
get is familiar like juicy muscles an
enormous crayfish but be prepared to try
the more unusual Cape delicacies like
Bakken a sun dried fish prepared for me
by sake and it's really funny Tyson
no I
hmm reminds me so much of my own little
boys shoes
well sorry couldn't have been that
offended cuz he let me in on the secret
of one of my favorite dishes his
yellowtail entity you back to squeeze a
little bit of lemon on the yellow tell
certainly wait a meaty fish in the tuna
family it's simply moistened with lemon
juice season generously with salt and
black pepper thanks and sprinkled with
garlic flakes of course you could use
fresh garlic home if you prefer lovely
and you know we add the butter add a bit
of sunflower hmm nicely ready to put in
the hotel
this is a great way to cut those
delicate Phil it's a fish which will
fall apart of your charter cook them
directly on your barbie so just use a
solid fireproof roasting tin and sit
that on top of your Barbie and cover and
loud cook gently for about 20 minutes
with the occasional basting Oh beautiful
okay
now what are we going to serve those
with little baby potatoes cooked in
seawater and with butter to bring out
the best in the fish and if you can't
get yellowtail why not try salmon or sea
trout Phillips for equally stunning
results
here's a delicious recipe for the Barbie
which combines all the gorgeous
influences of cape cuisine fruits of the
sea muscles fruits of the land apricots
wine orange juice and of course
delightful spices take two squares of
extra strong foil one on top of the
other then gradually fold in the edges
to make little boats
place on your grill and fill each one
with scrubbed cleaned muscles sprinkle
with finely sliced dried apricots some
freshly squeezed orange juice and a
sprinkling of dry white wine
pop a small piece of cinnamon into each
boat with some peeled and thinly sliced
ginger dot with small cubes of butter
and season with sea salt and freshly
ground black pepper a sprinkling of
chopped fresh coriander and Carla chives
and cook for 10 to 15 minutes over
medium hot coals until all the muscles
are opened of course discard any that
stay closed serve with warm bread mop up
all those juices they're delicious as a
starter or tremendous as a main course
the Cape is renowned for the sheer
abundance and variety of seafood so when
the local fishermen of paternoster
invited me for a beach Barbie hey I
simply couldn't wait
building an open fire to cook on like
they do here is a simple affair all you
need are a few stones to provide a
windbreak and contain your fire I think
I've shown you by now how versatile
invented barbecue cooking can be all
those gorgeous marinades and paste a
wonderful but the real beauty of
barbecuing is it doesn't have to be
fancy to taste good just a gorgeous
flavor of fresh fish smoked over an open
fire oh
these fish are harders they're a bit
like herring the boys simply clean
season and cook them in these double
sided grill Rex straight on top of the
fire cord and a half make you hungry the
funny thing is though they catch more
types of tuna here than anywhere else in
the world but you won't catch them
eating it nice tasting this isn't it yes
very much you know it amazes me is you
guys you don't eat much tuna fish why
not no don't mean much Billy big one for
exploit you just exporting yeah yeah
it's a lovely fish it so succulent yeah
you sure you don't overcook it now yeah
well I'll actually what I'm gonna do I'm
gonna cook you a piece of tuna fish and
when you taste it you realize how
succulent and beautiful that fishes
ah just look at this tuna fish it's
superb how anybody wanted to reject it
I'm going to show them how to make tuna
fish with chips you might show you fish
and chips on the barbie a bit special
let me say how I'm gonna do this what
I've got here is some nice peppercorns
nice mix of peppercorns here I'm just
gonna climb those down there really give
that a good ol work there that's it i'm
good for the old biceps lift i tell ya
really make that work in there what
we're gonna do is add some rock salt but
what you don't do is add it too early
you at it too early all the grains sort
of breakdown as gets too fine and you
want there's lovely crusty bits on top
of your face and then i'm gonna take
some olive oil and drizzle that on top
of your tuna fish that's it just a
little bit of a drizzle there turn those
over look at those steaks did by another
little drizzle of oil and then sprinkle
your pepper corns on top oh that little
lovely beautiful
that's it and then press it really press
those in you want to get those inside
your fish there that's lovely now we're
gonna let some of that pepperiness they
have penetrate into the fish and give it
a lovely flavor now as for my chips what
I'm using here is sweet potato these are
slightly different variety of what
you're probably used to seeing at home
you can get them at home but were ball
we used to that come out to the orange
variety that are imported from South
America other places like that okay just
cut those up cut them into wedges that's
it and then pop them into some boiling
water David is on my Barbie and just let
those par boil for about six or seven
minutes you'll know when it's nice and
tending get the point of a knife and
just pop in barely just tender but you
don't want to mash them so do keep an
eye on it they're nice and tender you
take them out of the water that's it
there they are you can see that look
let's just lose this that's it and then
drizzle some olive oil on top that's it
and some rock salt and then give them a
good mix there really mix that around
bring that in there beautiful and look
at this isn't that beautiful I was
cooking waffles but in fact this is a
great invention you just open that up
hop inside your potato doesn't have to
be potatoes anything you want you can
pop inside there to go in your bar being
of course it stops you from getting
those tongs and doing everything one at
a time because that's all a bit of a
bother isn't it just slap those in there
like that lock it up and slap that on
your barbie all right Oh hold of course
by my lovely tuna steaks let's just pop
those off
want to cook them for about two or three
minutes on each side not too long
remember you can have them rare medium
but not well done you want to keep them
nice and juicy now you're probably used
to having a tartar sauce with your fish
and chips aren't you something like that
well here's something which is slightly
unusual you just take one red chili just
warm it through slightly on the barbie
and we're going to mix that with some
mayonnaise there nice creamy mayonnaise
to that got a little bit of garlic so
take her how about three or four gloves
of garlic you just chop that up got a
nice handful of chopped party all that's
going inside and a little bit of a mix
they're beautiful and then here it is
here's my lovely chili slit that open
you just hold a little green tip at the
end there that's really good just allows
you to control it slip that open pull
out some of those hot seeds and then
just chop up your chili
that's it take those up pop them into
the bowl and just mix that and boy
doesn't that look good oh yes oh yes I
think it's time to turn over our
tutoring our techies potatoes needed on
a nice hot part of the coals and of
course to cook those tuna steaks over
some nice meeting two hot coals to what
a waiting cake why not have a bit of
entertainment yes please do do you
follow the week dipstick I'm here to say
every trans am a big swing here we are
fish and chips South African style and
not a mushy pea in sight cool look at
that come on boys get involved in this I
hope you like it it's absolutely
beautiful look at this
hmm Zuko good lageko very nice you like
Johnny yes yes very very very much
indeed and you've been exporting it all
these years can't believe it tuna fish
takes South Africa by storm
join me for more exotic barbecues next
week from a beautiful country of
Thailand